this is my third organ it's not quite
finished yet but I wanted to go ahead
and make a video I still need to make
the decorative panels that will fill in
these areas and I need to add the tuning
mechanism to the top of the open pipes
right now they're just cut to length so
the tuning isn't perfect this organ is a
two-stop one-ranked continuo
and what that means is that there's one
set of pipes and there's a transmission
which allows those pipes to play to both
eight foot and four foot pitch the organ
has stopped pipes for the bottom two
octaves and then the rest of the pipes
are open the organ comes in two units
the bottom unit contains the reservoir
and the blower and everything else in
the top unit which can be lifted off
during transportation there will be some
retractable handles on each end so the
two people can do that the manual has 51
notes from low C up to d3 and there's a
mechanism inside the organ which allows
it to transpose a half step above and a
half step below standard pitch the music
rack folds flat and the whole manual
lifts up to give access to the inside of
the organ for tuning and for adjusting
the transposition mechanism by moving
this I can slide the position of all the
sticklers either left or right the
layout of the organ has all the bass
pipes around across the back and around
the side there's another wall of bass
pipes here and then the last four
stopped pipes are here the open pipes
start here and run all the way through
to the top all the pipes in this area
are winded through grooves in the toe
board and all the bass pipes are winded
through aluminum tubing
the organ has two doors on the backside
here which allow access to tune the bass
pipes across the back and there are
magnets in the corners of the door to
hold them up so let's fire it up alright
the blowers fired up these are the stop
knobs for the eight foot and the four
foot
so first with just the 8 foot that same
thing with the 4 foot
into course with just the eight
all right I'm no organist but I'll try
to play a little piece
Oh
you
and once the organs finished I'll get a
real organist to go over and play some
music